# jtman8.github.io
Visit https://Jtman8.github.io/ to see the visualization:

This project attempts to categorize the feelings of emotions towards particular individuals by ISIS and Al-Qaeda and to compare these representations. To do this, my fellow intern and I applied the EmoLex Lexicon created by the National Research Council (NRC) of Canada to approximate the emotional resonance of paragraphs in which people were mentioned. We used the Natural Language Processing package SpaCy to identify when people were mentioned in the documents. SpaCy has a Named Entity Recognizer, which allowed us to pick out exactly where people were mentioned in the documents. While not perfect, it serves as a good starting point for identifying people quickly and without needing to manually search for them. Once we found all mentions of people, we attributed all the associated paragraphs to each person (meaning if two people were mentioned in the same paragraph, they both would have this paragraph associated with them). While we could have elected to summarize at the sentence level, we thought that using the emotions of the paragraphs would give a better sense of the overall emotional context surrounding the discussion of each person. By averaging all the emotional contexts an individual was mentioned in, we can get a sense of how that person was portrayed overall by a specific terrorist group.

The Clusters tab shows the results of agglomerative clustering on these individuals, where each dimension was one of the 8 emotions. If you are unfamiliar with clustering, it is easiest to view these as types of “emotional profiles.” If a person is associated with a certain cluster (which can be easily seen with the color), you can get a general sense for which “profile” they best fit into. The spider graphs illustrate the emotional profiles and allow comparison of the two groups. As can be seen in the charts, ISIS and Al-Qaeda had slightly different representations, with ISIS having similar profiles as Al-Qaeda, except that it has two additional types of emotional representation.

The Network Graphs feature each person mentioned in the indicated group’s documents as nodes, or dots, on the screen. For example, under the ISIS Network tab, you will dots associated with all of the individuals mentioned in the ISIS documents. Two people are connected if they were mentioned in the same paragraph, as it is likely they have some relationship if they appear in the same paragraph. Each person is colored by the cluster, or emotional profile, in which they were found to best reside. This allows you to see who is directly related to each other and to see what that relationship might look like (since you can compare the similiarities and differences between the clusters of the two people). Additionally, upon highlighting a person, their immediate connections will be highlighted. You will also see a chart appear to compare how that specific person is emotionally represented by the current group as well as the other terrorist group’s.
